README.md, before:

# AUA Utils

AUA Utils is a collection of minimalistic and clean utility scripts and tools designed to enhance the AUA web experience (official extension are available for Firefox and Chrome).

Plugins are separate code blocks that can work independently of the extension. They are cross-platform and can be installed using script injection extensions such as Tampermonkey. The AUA Utils Extension provides more capabilities and functionality, but for example, on Safari you can only install the plugins using Tampermonkey because AUA Utils extension is currently available for Safari.

AUA Utils Extension is the core part of the AUA Utils project. It represents the browser-based component that delivers the plugins directly inside AUA web platforms and serves as the main interface between the user and the overall AUA Utils ecosystem. 

<img width="1334" height="1361" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7f3fd968-31ab-4d66-b941-ec5af80c207b" />



---

## Table of Contents

* [Installation](#installation)
* [Usage](#usage)
* [Features](#features)
* [Contributing](#contributing)
* [License](#license)
* [Author](#author)

---

## Resources

* [Home Page](https://rezocrypt.github.io/aua-utils/)
* [YouTube Playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL5mX80ieRozxALX5DYm4Q_qyaURhWLNnQ)
* [Firefox Add-on](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/aua-utils/)
* [Chrome Extension](https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/aua-utils/echkbfkpejnpbjfmjoagfijakbnbglgp?authuser=1&hl=en)
* [Source Code](https://github.com/rezocrypt/aua-utils)

---



# Installation

Choose a browser in which to install AUA Utils. Available options are:

- **Firefox** – Add-on in Mozilla Store, Tampermonkey script, or .zip archive.
- **Chrome** - Extension in the Chrome Web Store, Tampermonkey script, or .zip archive.
- **Safari** – Only Tampermonkey script (I do not have an Apple Developer account).
- **Opera** – Opera supports downloading from Chrome Web Store extensions.


## Firefox

To install in Firefox, open the official Mozilla Add-ons page and download [AUA Utils](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/aua-utils/).


## Chrome

To install in Chrome, open the official Chrome Web Store and download [AUA Utils](https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/aua-utils/echkbfkpejnpbjfmjoagfijakbnbglgp). This must work also for Opera.


## Safari

For Safari, the only method is using the Tampermonkey extension. Here is a video tutorial (it only shows an example with Firefox and Chrome).

- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YOOfuNZ9F88


# Features

Here, the features included in AUA Utils are described. To understand the architecture of the codebase, see the [Contributing](#contributing) section.


## Plugins

Here are the single-function-script plugins, which are injected into the corresponding websites either by the extension or by Tampermonkey.


### AUA Courses Plugin

AUA Courses Plugin helps you find and filter courses more quickly and with greater flexibility.

<img width="1280" height="469" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d41c4a16-675b-40cd-a0d6-f8eca958c1d6" />



### AUA Gened Plugin

AUA Gened Plugin helps you find general education courses by keyword, theme, or level.

<img width="1280" height="452" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1b319745-dcfd-4ecc-82ba-c364730436a8" />


## Useful Links

Useful Links is a special section in the AUA Utils extension where important and frequently accessed webpages are listed.


# Usage

It is very intuitive to use each utility, but here is a simple YouTube tutorial. For now, the plugins just provide a popup with different filters for classes. See the overview here.

- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SvFOguzt2LA


# Contributing

Contributions of all kinds are welcome and highly appreciated.  
Bug reports, feature requests, documentation improvements, refactoring, and new ideas are all valuable to this project.

No contribution is too small. If you find something that can be improved, fixed, or extended, feel free to participate.

For detailed guidelines, workflow, and standards, please see [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md).


# License

This project is licensed under the GNU General Public License v3.0 – see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details.


# Author

It's me, and here is how you can contact me:

- GitHub: https://github.com/rezocrypt
- Telegram: https://t.me/rezocrypt
- Gmail: rezocrypt@gmail.com

Commit message:

Update README with project structure description
Removed duplicate image tag and added a description of the project structure.

README.md, after:

# AUA Utils

AUA Utils is a collection of minimalistic and clean utility scripts and tools designed to enhance the AUA web experience (official extension are available for Firefox and Chrome).

Plugins are separate code blocks that can work independently of the extension. They are cross-platform and can be installed using script injection extensions such as Tampermonkey. The AUA Utils Extension provides more capabilities and functionality, but for example, on Safari you can only install the plugins using Tampermonkey because AUA Utils extension is currently available for Safari.

AUA Utils Extension is the core part of the AUA Utils project. It represents the browser-based component that delivers the plugins directly inside AUA web platforms and serves as the main interface between the user and the overall AUA Utils ecosystem. 



---

## Table of Contents

* [Installation](#installation)
* [Usage](#usage)
* [Features](#features)
* [Contributing](#contributing)
* [License](#license)
* [Author](#author)

---

## Resources

* [Home Page](https://rezocrypt.github.io/aua-utils/)
* [YouTube Playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL5mX80ieRozxALX5DYm4Q_qyaURhWLNnQ)
* [Firefox Add-on](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/aua-utils/)
* [Chrome Extension](https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/aua-utils/echkbfkpejnpbjfmjoagfijakbnbglgp?authuser=1&hl=en)
* [Source Code](https://github.com/rezocrypt/aua-utils)

---



# Installation

Choose a browser in which to install AUA Utils. Available options are:

- **Firefox** – Add-on in Mozilla Store, Tampermonkey script, or .zip archive.
- **Chrome** - Extension in the Chrome Web Store, Tampermonkey script, or .zip archive.
- **Safari** – Only Tampermonkey script (I do not have an Apple Developer account).
- **Opera** – Opera supports downloading from Chrome Web Store extensions.


## Firefox

To install in Firefox, open the official Mozilla Add-ons page and download [AUA Utils](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/aua-utils/).


## Chrome

To install in Chrome, open the official Chrome Web Store and download [AUA Utils](https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/aua-utils/echkbfkpejnpbjfmjoagfijakbnbglgp). This must work also for Opera.


## Safari

For Safari, the only method is using the Tampermonkey extension. Here is a video tutorial (it only shows an example with Firefox and Chrome).

- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YOOfuNZ9F88


# Features

Here, the features included in AUA Utils are described. To understand the architecture of the codebase, see the [Contributing](#contributing) section. This image describes some abstract structure of the project.

<img width="1334" height="1361" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7f3fd968-31ab-4d66-b941-ec5af80c207b" />


## Plugins

Here are the single-function-script plugins, which are injected into the corresponding websites either by the extension or by Tampermonkey.


### AUA Courses Plugin

AUA Courses Plugin helps you find and filter courses more quickly and with greater flexibility.

<img width="1280" height="469" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d41c4a16-675b-40cd-a0d6-f8eca958c1d6" />



### AUA Gened Plugin

AUA Gened Plugin helps you find general education courses by keyword, theme, or level.

<img width="1280" height="452" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1b319745-dcfd-4ecc-82ba-c364730436a8" />


## Useful Links

Useful Links is a special section in the AUA Utils extension where important and frequently accessed webpages are listed.


# Usage

It is very intuitive to use each utility, but here is a simple YouTube tutorial. For now, the plugins just provide a popup with different filters for classes. See the overview here.

- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SvFOguzt2LA


# Contributing

Contributions of all kinds are welcome and highly appreciated.  
Bug reports, feature requests, documentation improvements, refactoring, and new ideas are all valuable to this project.

No contribution is too small. If you find something that can be improved, fixed, or extended, feel free to participate.

For detailed guidelines, workflow, and standards, please see [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md).


# License

This project is licensed under the GNU General Public License v3.0 – see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details.


# Author

It's me, and here is how you can contact me:

- GitHub: https://github.com/rezocrypt
- Telegram: https://t.me/rezocrypt
- Gmail: rezocrypt@gmail.com
